
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     National Council of Provinces (NCOP) chair Thandi Modise has declined to discuss a report that she would meet police to discuss the discovery, earlier this year, of dead and starving animals on her North West farm. “I don’t want to comment,” Modise said today when asked about the Sunday Times reporting that a meeting with police had been scheduled for next week. The newspaper quoted North West police spokesperson Brigadier Thulani Ngubane as saying the NCOP chairperson had been “co-operating with us from day one”. He said a meeting planned for July had been postponed, but that police understood “the nature of her work and business”. In July this year, police and NSPCA inspectors found more than 100 dead animals, including sheep, geese, goats and ducks, on her farm. It appeared they had been without food or water for over a week. About 85 pigs, who were still alive, had begun cannibalising 58 dead pigs, and were reportedly drinking their own urine. Many others found alive had to be put down. There were no farmworkers on the property, no electricity, and the water pumps were broken. Today, Ngubane said while police were still awaiting Modise’s version of events, others involved in the matter had already been providing statements. Modise had reportedly told police she would travel to Potchefstroom to meet them. The National Prosecuting Authority told the Sunday Times it had not received a docket, indicating whether Modise would be prosecuted. On Friday the NSPCA said conditions on the farm had improved. “Cattle on the farm have been supplied with sufficient food and appear to be in an acceptable condition,” spokeswoman Grace de Lange said in a statement. She said farm managers were implementing advice from vets on how to run the farm. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  