Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pretoria - A 2-year-old girl known as Baby L had such
severe brain swelling that part of her brain died, the North Gauteng High Court
in Pretoria heard on Thursday. Baby L's 20-year-old mother and her 36-year-old boyfriend
are on trial for allegedly trying to kill her, neglecting her, and failing to
get medical treatment for her. They have pleaded not guilty, claiming the toddler fell
down a flight of stairs and off a washing machine. Dr Sizwe Mbili, the neurosurgeon who treated Baby L after
she was admitted to the Steve Biko Academic Hospital in Pretoria on 30 December
last year, testified she was now in a vegetative state with minimal response to
stimuli. Her prognosis was poor, especially as she had sustained
brain damage at such a young age before she could learn certain functions. She
was unlikely to ever learn these and required constant care for basic functions
such as turning and feeding. Mbili testified that Baby L had been treated by a
multi-disciplinary team because of the severity of her head and other internal
injuries. The court earlier heard that the toddler had bruises at
various stages of healing all over her body, a fractured hip, swollen kidney
and a severe injury to her pancreas, for which she needed emergency surgery. Mbili said Baby L had been comatose and on a ventilator
when she was admitted to the hospital's intensive care unit. She had a very low
level of consciousness, low blood pressure, a low pulse and very little
response to pain. The reaction of her pupils to light was a sign of severe
brain damage. A scan showed her whole brain was swollen and there was evidence
of a small bleed and reduced blood flow to the brain. She had to be sedated and put in a coma to suppress any
activity in the brain to reduce the swelling. Parts of her brain started to die
as a result of the pressure of the swelling. ‘High velocity
injury’ He said the damage shown on a scan taken on 1 January did
not fit with an injury sustained on 27 December, when she was admitted to Steve
Biko for the first time, but under a different surname. Mbili described the injury to Baby L's brain as a high
velocity injury which damaged the whole brain and was likely to have been
caused a day or two before she was admitted to the hospital for the second time
on 30 November. She was discharged the first time and her caregivers told
to watch out for symptoms. Mbili believed it was unlikely that the small brain
bleeds shown on a scan during Baby L's first admission could have escalated
over time to cause such drastic swelling. He said a near drowning could have contributed to the
swelling of the brain, but would not have caused the bleeding. He could not pinpoint exactly what had caused the brain
to swell, although the toddler had bruises on her head. Pieter Coetzee, for the mother, put it to the surgeon
that Baby L had been "fine and smiling" when she left for work on the
morning of 30 December last year. He also put it to Mbili that Baby L should have received
an urgent operation to stop the brain bleeding. Mbili disagreed. He said the brain bleeding had been in
an inaccessible area of the brain and there were other means available to
control the bleeding and inter-cranial pressure. The trial continues on Monday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  