Chelsea Pieterse OVER 60 pupils at Bisley Primary School have lost loved ones in car accidents. In an event organised by South Africans Against Drunk Driving (Sadd) for World Day of Remembrance for Crash Victims, children were encouraged to show their love for ones they had lost. The children of Bisley Primary held red and white balloons in remembrance of family members who had died in car crashes. Founder of Sadd, Caro Smit said the event was for the victims and their families and to raise awareness of cautious driving and wearing seatbelts. “We need to take this seriously. Accidents are so preventable and we can halve the death-rate tomorrow by buckling up. “We don’t think of the human element; we think of accidents in statistics,” said Smit. As children gathered around and chatted to guests, Msunduzi Mayor, Chris Ndlela and wife of the former KZN Premier, May Mhkize, paramedics and firemen stood around emergency vehicles. Smit said it had been a hard day for the children and herself as they had all lost a loved one to road accidents. Smit said that on Monday, 45 South African families lost relatives in a car crash. Mkhize said it was good that Sadd spoke to the children as they would hopefully grow up to be better drivers. “Children are the better people to get messages to, as they have the potential to change,” said Mkhize about the event. Smit said along with the awareness campaign, Sadd also advocated the promotion of seat-belt wearing. “People do not get thrown out of cars when they are wearing their seat belts,” Smit pointed out. Mayor Ndlela said he supported the campaign and said it was the most opportune time to talk about road accidents. “With transport month behind us and the festive season approaching we must all take care. I myself am a fanatic of the buckle-up campaign,” said Ndlela. Bisley Primary principal Segren Pillay said it had been a positive event for his pupils who had lost loved ones in car accidents. “They can now identify with each other and they have a friend who is in a similar situation,” said Pillay. ER24 paramedic, Paul Knoesen said events like Sadd’s were important as it reminded people of the aftereffects that drunken and negligent driving had on victims and their families. “Hat’s off to Caro and what she has done. It helps us all at the end of the day,” said Knoesen. • chelsea.pieterse@witness.co.za 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  