Thobani Ngqulunga THE death of a waste picker who was run over by a Bomag landfill compactor yesterday has sparked a furore. Killer Majola from Imbali died at the scene and Sindi Shange was severely injured and rushed to hospital after the operator allegedly ran over them despite cries from waste pickers who were trying to warn him to stop. The waste pickers at the New England Road landfill site were angry with the compactor operator yesterday. Majola’s death is the second in two years at the landfill site, after Nqobile Maphumulo from Cinderella Park was killed in 2012. Nonhlanhla Mhlope of the Hlanganani Ma-Afrika Co-operative said this would not have happened if the Msunduzi Municipality had signed the agreement to allow for the construction of a materials recovery facility (MRF). “The uMgungundlovu District Municipality [UMDM] has had funding of R21 million which was allocated by Cogta two years ago.” Mhlophe said this death would not have occurred because there would have been nobody on the site had they constructed the MRF. “Msunduzi does not want to give the land.” Others said there were recycling companies who made a lot of money from the waste pickers but did not intervene to help them work in better conditions. groundWork’s waste campaign manager Musa Chamane said it was very sad to lose a life in this manner. “Msunduzi Municipality, specifically the current municipal manager, is refusing to use funds that have been already allocated by Cogta for the construction of the MRF, which would make waste picking or reclaiming much more formal.” Chamane said the beneficiaries of the MRF are a co-operative of waste pickers in the city, “but the municipal manager felt that the recycling business should be given to a private organisation instead of a co-operative”. “More than 100 jobs are bound to be created by the MRF and Msunduzi will not spend a cent, but they are ­refusing to give the go ahead to the district, instead they sign back-door contracts,” said Chamane. But Msunduzi Municipality manager Mxolisi Nkosi said the MRF project was under way with the ­UMDM heading it. “We have a strategic partnership with the UMDM and we will also be providing some funds,” he said. Nkosi said: “We would like to send our condolences because one death is one too many.” Provincial police spokesperson Captain Thulani Zwane said the Alexandra police station is investigating an inquest docket. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  