Karabo Ngoepe The scene after an armed robbery at Cresta Mall, Johannesburg. (Nino Blaq Mzolo, News24 User) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - An elderly man was shot and wounded when
three armed men robbed a store at the Cresta shopping mall in Johannesburg on
Wednesday, Gauteng police said. Are you there? Send us your eyewitness accounts. Upload photos HERE, stories HERE, or e-mail HERE. Captain Tsekiso Mofokeng was unable to confirm the extent of
his injuries but said the man had been hospitalised. ER24 spokesperson Werner Vermaak said earlier on Wednesday
that the man was shot through the arm. "They couldn't find any other injured at the scene but
people were in shock," Vermaak said. Shooting randomly The three men entered an electronics store and ordered the
employees to lie down. They took an undisclosed number of cellphones and iPads
and fled the scene. "The men then started shooting randomly in the parking
lot of the mall, where the elderly man was injured," said Mofokeng. Mofokeng was also unable to confirm reports that the robbery
happened at the mall's iStore. Business as usual Afterwards, it was business as usual at the mall, as shoppers
continued with their day, some enjoying a meal at a restaurant near where it
appeared the robbers dropped off their loot. Security and police had Entrance 4 cordoned off with a blue
bag lying on the ground. An Apple product could be seen next to the bag.
Curious onlookers kept asking security officials questions about the robbery. iStore employees were still in the store giving statements
to police. A note on the door read: "Due to unforeseen
circumstances, iStore will be closed until further notice." Like a scene from a movie One employee from a nearby shop, who asked not to be named,
said the robbery resembled a scene from a movie. "I just saw a commotion and went outside. I ran out and
was met by a guy with a gun," said the employee. Realising that there was danger, the employee ran back to
the store. "People closed shops and ducked for cover." The employee said the armed gang left the iStore with three
large bags filled with electronics. "When the suspects left, we heard gun shots and people
ducked to the floor." Centre management said they would issue a statement on the
incident.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  