Griekwastad boy sentenced for murder speaks to his supporters during his sentencing. (Charne Kemp) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Kimberley - Northern Cape Judge President Frans Kgomo on Wednesday urged the young Griekwastad farm murderer to act like a man and face the consequences of his deeds. "In two days you are a man. Now, be a man," Kgomo told the 17-year-old boy before sentencing him to an effective 20 years in prison. The boy, who turns 18 on Friday, was sentenced for the murders of Griekwastad farmer Deon Steenkamp, 44, his wife Christel, 43, and their daughter Marthella, 14. They were shot dead on their farm Naauwhoek on 6 April 2012. The boy was also convicted for raping the girl and lying to the police. Kgomo sentenced the boy to 20 years imprisonment on each of the three murder counts, 12 years on the rape count, and four years for defeating the ends of justice. The sentences would run concurrently. Kgomo said that although the State asked for the maximum penalty he was prepared to give a remission on sentence. The reason for this was the boy was a first offender and had a chance to be rehabilitated. The court agreed with evidence that the boy's continued claim of innocence during the trial was worrying. Kgomo agreed with evidence that the boy needed intensive therapy during imprisonment. This would include programmes in relation to eventually showing grief. The court found the boy was not influenced as a minor by anybody else in committing the crimes. On Wednesday, almost all the police officials, local and national, who worked on the case were present in court. The group, as well as family of the victims, formed a column of people stretching from the desk behind prosecutor Hannes Cloete to the back of the courtroom. On the other side of the courtroom a much smaller group of the boy's family, his guardian and family, and representatives of the National Institute for Crime Prevention and the Reintegration of Offenders were sitting. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  