
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Charges of intimidation, assault, and kidnapping have been laid against two people at the North West farm of National Council of Provinces chairperson Thandi Modise, the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals said. The society’s executive director Marcelle Meredith said that the charges were laid against Modise’s spokesperson, Neo Moepi, and “an individual who currently runs the farm, whose identity is not known to the NSPCA”. Meredith said the charges stemmed from an alleged altercation at the farm on July 29 when inspectors went to the premises to check on the condition of cattle. The inspectors were in possession of a warrant and were escorted by police, Meredith said. “A man with dreadlocks we found at the farm did not have a problem with us being there. Moepi emerged and ... gave instructions to the man to take possession of the inspectors’ vehicle keys,” Meredith said. She accused Moepi of kidnapping after he allegedly locked them inside the property and would not let them out. Police spokesperson Constable Lefa Barda confirmed a docket was opened on July 28, but said it only contained a charge of intimidation. “There is nothing in here about assault and kidnapping. There is a faded photo of a dreadlocked man with no name. There is no second person mentioned in the charge sheet,” Barda said. Meredith said the case was opened in Alberton, east of Johannesburg, and was transferred to Buffelshoek police station in Potchefstroom, where charges of cruelty to animals were laid against Modise on July 25. “Those are the three charges we laid. It is really up to the police to decide on the charges,” she said. Last week, Moepi denied threatening the two inspectors with violence, claiming he had saved them from harm at the hands of farm workers. Read: Thandi Modise’s farm manager denies threats, says he was called a kaf**r 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  