(Picture: City of Tshwane) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria - Senior Tshwane metro police officer, Johanna "Trish" Armstrong, who is being investigated for fraud, has been suspended, metro police said on Wednesday. "She has been suspended with immediate effect with full pay," said Senior Superintendent Isaac Mahamba. "Investigations are ongoing and she will appear soon for an internal disciplinary hearing." Armstrong was given a letter of intention to suspend on Thursday and given 48 hours to respond. The 48 hours lapsed on Monday. She failed to motivate why she should not be suspended. "When she was given notice, she was expected to show representation and motivate why she should not be suspended. She never appeared," he said. The city was investigating Armstrong, the director of research and resource development, for allegedly forging documents to obtain her position, which she has held since May 2013. Armstrong, 48, was appointed director of research and resource development at the city in May last year with an annual salary package of R704 650. According to her job description, she is responsible for managing and overseeing research and development, by-law co-ordination and management, firearm management, employee wellness services, and civilian and internal affairs. She is accused of forging her traffic diploma and Saps training certificate. The certificate is apparently a prerequisite to become a metro police officer.It is awarded to members trained in management and leadership, the regulatory framework for metropolitan police, the Road Traffic Act, traffic policing, crime prevention, administrative procedures, health, fitness, and street survival. The SA Municipal Workers Union called for her removal. Tshwane regional chairperson Nkhetheni Muthavi questioned the interview process that preceded her appointment and why the authenticity of the qualifications was not verified. "We also agree that everyone is presumed innocent until proven guilty," he said. Armstrong could not be reached for comment. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  