A DRUNKEN skirmish between pupils at kwaMncane High School in Vulindlela­ turned violent yesterday, leaving one person in a critical condition with five stab wounds and others with minor injuries. The fight allegedly started on Wednesday as a school quarrel between two boys from the Khokhwane and the Elandskop areas. The boys had allegedly been drinking. By yesterday, it had degenerated into deadly violence with pupils coming to school armed and supported by non-pupils carrying knives and pangas. At least 30 boys were involved. Captain Thulani Zwane of the SAPS said their detectives were investigating the incident. He said a case of assault has been opened and that a 24-year-old man was stabbed in his back by the suspect. “The incident took place outside the school premises and the victim is not a pupil. … No arrests have been made.” Muzi Mahlambi, the spokesperson for the Department of Education, said they were not aware of the latest attack but were greatly concerned. “We believe that when one is at school, the teachers and the pupils are all safe, so it is a great worry when children stab each other like that.” A student who witnessed the fight but cannot be named for safety concerns said the fight started on Wednesday inside the school where the two boys had been drinking. “They just lost their minds and the fight started … We managed to break that fight up and thought it was over,” he said. He said during their school break, the boy from Khokhwane snuck out to collect knives that had been hidden in the bushes. Another fight broke out and they fled with their knives. He said yesterday, several boys who were not students also from Khokhwane showed up armed with knives. “They lured the boys from Elandskop outside the school and another fight broke out. They fought with fists and knives. “One boy [one of those who were not pupils] fled to a nearby house where the boys from Elandskop chased him to, and stabbed him several times.” The pupil said this was the worst fight the school had seen. An ER24 spokesperson said the stabbed boy was in a critical condition in hospital.