The Durban University of Technology has reached an agreement with its student representative council to end strike action. This would result in all six of the university’s faculties being reopened on Monday next week, DUT vice chancellor and principal Prof Ahmed Bawa said yesterday. “Our six faculties at DUT will publish a revised academic calendar that will be implemented as from next Monday,” Bawa said. Residences at the university would also be reopened, today. Bawa said the SRC had committed towards ensuring there would be no violence and intimidation once the academic calendar recommenced and residences re-opened. “I am confident that we have made significant strides with our SRC in restoring an environment that will be conducive to teaching and learning,” he said. The registration process at DUT would resume today, Bawa said. He said students could also register tomorrow or they could opt for the online registration process if they were unable to register today. The institution was disrupted for about ten days, with the SRC demanding that students whose fees had not been paid by the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) be allowed to re-register despite the non-payment. Lectures were suspended last Tuesday and students vacated their residences last Thursday. The university and the SRC came to an agreement on some of the demands of protesting students. DUT said that it would allow students who were studying towards BTech degrees last year, to reregister this year, provided they could complete their BTech degrees. Bawa said these students would only be registered for tuition and that they would have to sign a loan agreement with the university. “The university will also pursue the matter of financial aid for students currently studying BTech degrees in scarce skills areas,” Bawa said. DUT would assist the 1 160 students awaiting the outcome of their appeals for funding from NSFAS to reregister. This would enable them to complete their diploma or degree this year, Bawa said. A total of 2 600 NSFAS packages would also be made available to first year, first-time applicants. The book allowance would be increased from R1 000 to R1 500. And, as part of a pilot project, NSFAS would fund an additional R1 500 to students. “Students can use this allowance to purchase a NSFAS approved tablet device from a NSFAS approved supplier,” Bawa said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  