(Picture: AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The ANC on Thursday welcomed the Special
Investigating Unit's (SIU's) probe into a number of institutions for
maladministration and corruption. "This decision is underpinned by the commitment of
the ANC to ensure zero tolerance to corruption for greater accountability and
clean governance," spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said in a statement. "The ANC remains convinced that continuous
monitoring of government performance and the institution of early warning
systems will go a long way to exposing real and potential corruption as well as
those behind these acts of corruption." Kodwa said the ruling party called on the SIU to ensure
the probes were undertaken "expeditiously within acceptable time
frames". He said the ANC expected all levels of government and
state institutions to help in the process. On Wednesday, the presidency said President Jacob Zuma
had asked the SIU to probe the SA Post Office (Sapo), the State Information
Technology Agency (Sita), the Greater Tubatse local municipality and Vhembe
district municipality in Limpopo, and the national departments of labour,
public works, and transport. "While not pre-judging these cases, the
proclamations are part of the drive to fight, eradicate, and prevent corruption
and maladministration at all levels of government and state-owned
enterprises," spokesperson Mac Maharaj said at the time. Regarding the national departments and local
municipalities, the SIU would look at allegations of improper or unlawful
conduct of staff, unlawful appropriation or expenditure, and unlawful,
irregular or unapproved acquisitions involving state property. It would investigate intentional or negligent loss of
public money or damage to public property and alleged corruption. At Sapo, the unit would investigate alleged irregular
conduct by board members. The Sita investigation would focus on, among others,
allegations of maladministration and unlawful or improper conduct by officials. "Full details relating to the directives issued to
the SIU are contained in the relevant proclamations that will be gazetted on
Friday, 1 August 2014," said Maharaj. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  