A woman attends a mass-demonstration calling on the government to increase efforts to rescue hundreds of missing kidnapped school girls of a government secondary school Chibok, in Lagos, Nigeria. (Sunday Alamba, AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Washington - The commander of US forces in Africa has flown to Nigeria to discuss how Washington can help the government in Abuja trace more than 200 schoolgirls kidnapped by Islamist militants. A defence official told AFP on Tuesday that General David Rodriguez, head of US Africa Command, "is discussing US assistance for the search as well as overall cooperation." The four-star general arrived on Monday for talks with his Nigerian counterparts and also was due to meet US diplomats and military officers, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The trip was scheduled prior to the crisis and Rodriguez also plans to discuss the US military's longer-term relations with Nigerian forces, officials said. Prior to the kidnapping, Nigeria showed little interest in large-scale cooperation with the US military. Washington has been anxious over what it sees as heavy-handed tactics by the country's troops.  The US general's visit came after the United States confirmed it was flying manned aircraft over Nigeria and sharing commercial satellite imagery to help with the hunt for the kidnapped girls. Boko Haram extremists abducted 276 girls from the remote northeastern town of Chibok in Borno state on 14 April, and around 223 are still missing. The militants on Monday released a new video purporting to show some of the girls. US intelligence experts are "combing through every detail of the video for clues," a State Department spokeswoman said on Monday. British, French and Israeli specialists are also providing assistance to Nigeria, which has been accused of responding too slowly to the kidnapping and even of ignoring a forewarning that it was imminent.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  