Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe. (File, AP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories President Robert Mugabe's spokesperson has stressed that the 93-year-old president's departure for Singapore is for a "scheduled" medical check-up.Cape Town &ndash; Video footage has emerged showing Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe arriving at a private hospital in Singapore with his wife, Grace. The footage released by Britain's public broadcaster Channel 4 shows Mugabe and his wife entering Gleneagles Hospital. Grace and Mugabe's bodyguards make an attempt to stop the cameraperson from filming the veteran leader. "Why are you taking photo?... You shouldn't take photo," Grace is heard pleading with the cameraperson, who maintains that "it's a public place". Check out the video below. According to New Zimbabwe.com Gleneagles Hospital says its Parkway Eye Centre offers the latest in blade-free LASIK and cataract removal surgery. Mugabe has admitted having cataracts removed on both eyes in Singapore. Channel 4, however, says there is also a "well-regarded" cancer clinic at the same hospital. A leaked 2008 US diplomatic cable cited then bank governor Gideon Gono as saying Mugabe had prostate cancer, a claim denied by officials. Mugabe left Harare for Singapore last week with his spokesperson saying he was on a "private visit" during which he would also undergo "a routine eye check up" following "a recent procedure on the same". Succession battle Mugabe's health is a concern for Zimbabweans who fear instability if he dies in office without resolving a succession battle raging in his ruling Zanu-PF party. Mugabe's closest ally, Didymus Mutasa, recently warned journalists against publishing stories on his (Mugabe's) health, saying the regime would deal ruthlessly with such scribes. According to The Daily News, Mutasa said journalists and people who fuelled speculation on Mugabe's health should be punished severely. Mugabe has long been rumoured to be seriously ill and has travelled to Singapore for medical checks several times in the past five years. He has ruled Zimbabwe since independence from Britain in 1980. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.