Johannesburg - A woman involved in a love triangle has confessed to helping murder her live-in boyfriend, East Rand police said on Thursday. The woman, her lover, and her lover's friend allegedly took turns to stab her boyfriend at the Makause informal settlement, near Germiston, at the weekend, Sergeant Styles Maome said. "On Friday night she went out with the other boyfriend, who is 28 years old, and his friend for a drinking spree," said Maome. They ran out of money. "She [told the others she] knows that her other boyfriend got paid and they must go and rob him," Maome said. "The [second] boyfriend asked her how will they enter his yard because they lock the gate and the lady said he usually opens for her when she comes back from enjoying herself." She allegedly told them they needed to throw a stone onto the roof of the shack and he would open the gate. "The three decided to go and try the trick. On their arrival the lady [threw] the stone and the poor boyfriend opened as usual," said Maome. Blood-soaked clothes The three of them allegedly entered the yard, grabbed the boyfriend by the neck, and her second lover stabbed him with a sharp object in the lower body. "All three entered the shack and searched, but they could not find the money," said Maome. They took two TV decoders and a DVD. "When they [were] about to leave, the lady realised that the victim was still breathing and [took] the sharp object and stabbed the victim as well," said Maome. The boyfriend's friend also stabbed the man. The group allegedly undressed the dead man and made off with his blood-soaked clothes. The woman allegedly confessed after she was interrogated by police. "She and her boyfriend confessed," Maome said. The police went to the shack of the woman's lover where they found the stolen DVD. "The boyfriend informed them that they all burnt the deceased's clothes and the decoders." Police found her lover's friend and all three were arrested and charged with murder. They appeared in the Germiston Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. Their case was postponed to 14 October for further investigation. They remained behind bars.